Q1- What is docker or what is container?

Docker is an open source containerization platform. it enabies developer to package application to containers. it is used to build the 
containers and it used to manage the life cycle of containers. i used to docker for build the docker images, write the files, put in some 
registries, run docker images.

Q2  How containers are different from virtual machine ?

container have very light weight in nature and virual machine is very hevy in nature containing all opering system basically virtul 
machine nothing but virual computer having os, volume , security group , etc.
container nothing but light weght nature because of they dont have complete operating system but have minimum system dependency to run
application. for i.e we have need java application in container we have minimum system dependency to run java files or application using 
that container.

Q-3  What is docker lifecycle?

firstly user have create docker file. docker file nothing but set of instruction and command defines the docker image. for i.e which 
base image you choose? what are dependency install to run application.

Docker image nothing but set of instruction to build container. using the docker build you have convert docker file into docker image.
after the create docker image using the docker run command this command use for the execute docker container. we can also pull the container and
push the container. 

Q-4 What are the different components?

Docker cli is one of the main componet of docker using the cli you can send instruction to docker.
i.e docker build
    docker run 
    docker push 
    docker pull etc

Docker deemon nothing but hurt of the docker if deemon down the operation not perform by the docker.
in deemon received file and operation perform regarding docker image and container. so this is main component of docker.

Docker registry nothing but run as container, docker registry use nothing but external docker.


Q-5  What are the different between the docker add and docker copy command?

doker add command use when file copy from the url for i.e. if any file need to copy from s3 bucket file available in form link the you 
can use the docker add command
docker copy command use when the file need to copy form you existing system then use docker copy command.

Q-6 What are the different between cmd and docker entry point? 
   

Q-7 What are different types of network

bridge network
host netowork
overlay
macvlan


Q-8 can you explain how to isolate networking the container ?

if you have need to create isolate networking the you can create seperate network for each container.
for example i have two container and need to create isolate from each other then first you create docker 0 network for container A and create bridge network 
for container B these two container definatly isolated from each other.


Q-9 What is multi stage build in docker?

multi stage is allow to build your container in multiple stage to allowing the copy of artifact from one stage to other stage.
using the multi stage you have create light weight container.
for example you have container with 800 mb the you have need to create light weight container. then using the multistage build container build in 
multiple stage and copy artifact from one stage to other stage so you can build light weight container.


Q-10  What are the distro less images in dockers?

distro less images is contain only your application and its runtime dependency with minimum operating system libraries. they are very small and light weight images.

Q-11 Real time challenges in dockers?

- docker is single deimons process which can cause single point of failure. if the deimons is slow down or some issue due the some then whole application is down.

-  docker deimons run as root user. which is security threat. any process running as root user can have adverse effect. security threat impact on container and 
   application on the host.

- Resource constraint : when you have run so many containers on single hosts then you may experience resource constraint. the effect is application slow down or crash.



Q-12 whare would you step to secure container?

-  you can use distro less  or image with not too many packages are involved on that docker images.  create multi stage image its help to create light weght container and
  this images help to minimise security thread.

- networking properly try to give seperate networking to each container this help to crate isolated container and help to minimize security thread.

- use utilise scan or syncronise container images.

Q-13 What is Docker ?
    
- Docker is open source contaniser platform that allow to you management and deployment application within light weight, isolated software containers.

Q-14 what is docker file ?
  
   Docker file is text file that contain instruction to how to build docker images.
   in docker file is base image, dependencies , application code, and other configuration to build runnable 


Q-15 Docker Image ?
    Docker images is set of instruction is used to create container and execute code inside.

Q-16 how to pull images?
    Docker pull imagename

Q-17 Docker run -it -d imagename  (-it = interact , -d = detatch  (-it -d these are the flags to attached with images) )

Q-18 Docker ps ( use to show how many container are available) 

Pull command

pull command use for the copy image from docker repository to host system. we have a image and image available on docker hub reposatory so using pull command like 

docker pull imagename : tags or specification of images this command help to pull image from docker repository.

Docker images   : to check how many images are available on your docker account.

Docker serach images name ( to find perticular images  docker hub) 
Docker search mysql:version name.

Docker ps -a ( this command use mostly when container carry software or file  installation,  not carry any contineos running application ) 

docker inspect container id ( using this command showing container information briefly) 

docker run --name (name of conatainer)  imagename: tag


docker run --name (name of container) -it -d imagename:tag  ( for run container in backegrouong / using this command container is running in up condition  i= interactive mode ) 
      t = terminal ( command line interface se interactive mode and also provide terminal to perform task) ( -d = use for the container run on background mode) 

docker exec = command use for execute command in a running container.
i.e docker exec -it container name (up container) chose language python, java ( choose language as per images data which run on container)

docker inspect containername  (showing internal information about container like version, names, tages , etc) 

docker run --name -it --rm imagename 
( docker run --name containerc5 -it --rm python:latest )  

docker stop container name
docker start containername/id
docker restart containername/id
docker rm containername/id 

How to remove images in docker?

firstly we have finding container which are created by respective image.
then remove all container.
then delete images which need to remove using following command

command name = docker rmi imagename
               docker rm containername/id

               docker container prune  ( remove all container from system)r
               docker system prune

How to create container for the mysql database

$ docker run --name some-mysql -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=my-secret-pw -d mysql:tag
  $ docker run --name mysqlc1 -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=shubham -d mysql:latest

docker exec -it containername mysql -u root -p



Dockerfile

     # The name of the base image use #
      FROM "ubuntu"


















 


















